.TH INDEXER.CONF 5 "23 March 2001" "mnoGoSearch 3.1" "mnoGoSearch reference manual"
.SH NAME
indexer.conf \- 
configuration file for indexer
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is configuration file for
.B indexer (1).
Configuration file consists of commands and their arguments.
All commands are case-insensitive.
You can use # to comment out lines.
.SH VARIABLES
.TP


.SH Global parameters

These commands should be used only once and take global effect for the 
whole configuration file.

.TP 
.BI DBType\ type
Database type, currently supported values are
.I mysql, pgsql, msql, solid, mssql, oracle, ibase, sqlite
Actually it does not matter for native libraries support,
but ODBC users must specify one of the supported values. 
If your database type is not supported, use 
.I unknown
instead.

.TP
.BI DBHost\ host
SQL host name (Not required for ODBC)

Default: localhost
.TP
.BI DBName\ mnogosearch
SQL database name or ODBC DSN

Default: mnogosearch
.TP
.BI DBUser\ foo
Database username to connect to database

Default: no user
.TP
.BI DBPass\ bar
Database password to connect to database

Default: no password

.TP
.BI DBMode\  single/multi/crc/crc-multi
SQL database words storage mode. Does not apply for built-in database. 
When
.I single
is specified, all words are stored in the same table.
.I multi
means that words are stored in different tables depending on wordlength.
.I multi
mode is usualy faster, but it requires more tables in database.
In case of 
.I crc
mode, mnoGoSearch will store 32 bit integer word ID's calculated by CRC32 algorythm
instead of words. 
.I crc
mode requires less diskspace and is faster than
.I single
and
.I multi
modes.
.I crc-multi
mode shares storage structure with
.I crc
mode, but stores words in different tables depending on wordlength like
.I multi
mode.
Default DBMode value is
.I single

.TP
.BI LocalCharset\ charset
Defines charset for local file system. It is required if you are using 8 bit characters and is not applicable for 7 bit characters. 
This command is to be used once and takes global effect for the whole configuration file. 

Example:
.br
.I LocalCharset windows-1250

.TP
.BI CrossWords\ yes|no
Building CrossWords index. Crosswords are those, that are used in a link to the present page.
The default value is
.I no

.TP
.BI StopWordFile\ filename
This command indicates which file contains stopwords list to load. 
You may specify either absolute file name, or filename with a relative path to mnoGoSearch /etc directory.
You may use several 
.BI StopWordsFile
commands.

.TP
.BI MinWordLength\ characters
.BI MinWordLength\ characters
With these commands you can change default length range of words stored in database. By default mnoGoSearch stores words that are 
longer than 1 and shorter than 32.
Example:
.I MaxWordLength 35

.TP
.BI MaxDocSize\ bytes
Specify maximum size of a document in bytes that can be indexed. The default value is 
.I 1048576
(1 Mb). This command take global effect for the whole config file.

.TP
.BI HTTPHeader\ header
You may add custom HTTP headers to indexer HTTP request. Do not use "If-modified-since" and "Accept-Charset" headers, since they are 
composed by indexer itself. "User-Agent: mnoGoSearch/version" is sent too, although you may override it. The command has global effect for the whole configuration file.

.TP
.BI ServerTable\ table_name
This command works only with SQL database and is not applicable for built-in database mode. 
Load servers with all their parameters from the table 
.I table_name
For an example of such tables structure, please refer to the file create/mysql/server.txt You may use several arguments with this command:
.I ServerTable my_servers1 my_servers2 my_servers3
or just a single argument:
.I ServerTable server

.TP
.BI DeleteNoServer\ yes|no
Use this command to specify whether to delete the URL that have no corresponding 
.I Server
commands. Default value is
.I yes
.

.TP
.BI VarDir\ /path/to/my/var/dir
Specify a custom path to directory that indexer stores data to when use with built-in database and in cache mode. 
By default /var directory of mnoGoSearch installation is used. 



.SH URL Control Configuration
  
.TP
.BI Allow\ [Match|NoMatch]\ {NoCase|Case]\ [String|Regex]\ <arg>\ [<arg>\ ...]
Use this command to allow URL's that match (does not match) given argument. First three optional parameters describe the
type of comparison. Default values are
.I Match, NoCase, String
Use
.I NoCase
or
.I Case
values to to choose case insensitive or sensitive comparison. Use
.I Regex
to choose regular expression comparison. Use
.I String
to choose string with wildcards comparison. Wildcards are 
.I *
for any number of characters, and 
.I ?
for one character. Note that 
.I *
and
.I ?
have special meaning in 
.I String
match type. Please use 
.I Regex
to describe documents with 
.I ?
and
.I *
signs in URL.
.I String
match is much faster than
.I Regex,
so use
.I String
where it is possible. You may use several arguments for one 
.B Allow 
command and use this command any number of times. It takes global effect for the config file.
Note that mnoGoSearch automatically adds one 
.I Allow regex .*
command after reading config file. That command means that everything is allowed that is not disallowed

.TP
.BI Disallow\ [Match|NoMatch]\ [Case|NoCase]\ [String|Regex]\ [<arg>\ ...]
Use this to disallow indexing documents with URLs that match given argument.
The meaning of the first three optional parameters is exactly the same as with the 
.B Allow
command. You can use several arguments for one
.B Disallow
command. Takes global effect for config file.
.TP
Example:
#Exclude cgi-bin and non-parsed-headers
.br
Disallow /cgi-bin/ \\.cgi /nph 

#Exclude some known extensions
.br
Disallow \\.b$	\\.sh$	\\.md5$
.br
Disallow \\.arj$  \\.tar$  \\.zip$  \\.tgz$  \\.gz$
.br
Disallow \\.lha$ \\.lzh$ \\.tar\\.Z$  \\.rar$  \\.zoo$
.br
Disallow \\.gif$  \\.jpg$  \\.jpeg$ \\.bmp$  \\.tiff$ 
.br
Disallow \\.vdo$  \\.mpeg$ \\.mpe$  \\.mpg$  \\.avi$  \\.movie$
.br
Disallow \\.mid$  \\.mp3$  \\.rm$   \\.ram$  \\.wav$  \\.aiff$ \\.ra$
.br
Disallow \\.vrml$ \\.wrl$
.br
Disallow \\.exe$  \\.cab$  \\.dll$  \\.bin$  \\.class$
.br
Disallow \\.tex$  \\.texi$ \\.xls$  \\.doc$  \\.texinfo$
.br
Disallow \\.rtf$  \\.pdf$  \\.cdf$  \\.ps$
.br
Disallow \\.ai$   \\.eps$  \\.ppt$  \\.hqx$
.br
Disallow \\.cpt$  \\.bms$  \\.oda$  \\.tcl$
.br
Disallow \\.rpm$

#Exclude Apache directory list in different sort order
.br
Disallow \\?D=A$ \\?D=A$ \\?D=D$ \\?M=A$ \\?M=D$ \\?N=A$ \\?N=D$ \\?S=A$ \\?S=D$

#Exclude ./. and ./.. from Apache and Squid directory list
.br
Disallow /[.]{1,2} /\\%2e /\\%2f

.TP
.BI CheckOnly\ regexp\ [regexp\ [...]\ ]
Indexer will use HEAD instead of GET http method for URLs that
matches regexp. It means that file will be checked only
and will not be downloaded. Usefull for zip,exe,arj etc files.
One can use several arguments for one 'CheckOnly' command.
One can use this command any times but not more than MAXFILTER in indexer.h
Takes global effect for config file.
.TP
Examples:
#Use HEAD method for some known non-text extensions:
.br
CheckOnly \\.b$	\\.sh$	\\.md5$
.br
CheckOnly \\.arj$  \\.tar$  \\.zip$  \\.tgz$  \\.gz$
.br
CheckOnly \\.lha$ \\.lzh$ \\.tar\\.Z$  \\.rar$  \\.zoo$
.br
CheckOnly \\.gif$  \\.jpg$  \\.jpeg$ \\.bmp$  \\.tiff$ 
.br
CheckOnly \\.vdo$  \\.mpeg$ \\.mpe$  \\.mpg$  \\.avi$  \\.movie$
.br
CheckOnly \\.mid$  \\.mp3$  \\.rm$   \\.ram$  \\.wav$  \\.aiff$
.br
CheckOnly \\.vrml$ \\.wrl$
.br
CheckOnly \\.exe$  \\.cab$  \\.dll$  \\.bin$  \\.class$
.br
CheckOnly \\.tex$  \\.texi$ \\.xls$  \\.doc$  \\.texinfo$
.br
CheckOnly \\.rtf$  \\.pdf$  \\.cdf$  \\.ps$
.br
CheckOnly \\.ai$   \\.eps$  \\.ppt$  \\.hqx$
.br
CheckOnly \\.cpt$  \\.bms$  \\.oda$  \\.tcl$
.br
CheckOnly \\.rpm$

.TP
.BI HrefOnly\ regexp\ [regexp\ [...]\ ]
Indexer scans html documents that match regexp as it would scan any other
URLs, except that it will not index the contents. It will add any URLs it
finds in html document to database. Usefull when indexing mail list
archives with big index pages which contain mostly URLs.
One can use several arguments for one 'HrefOnly' command.
One can use this command any times but not more than MAXFILTER in indexer.h
Takes global effect for config file.
.TP
Examples:
#Scan these files for href tags only, but do not index there contents.
.br
HrefOnly mail.*\\.html$ thr.*\\.html$

.SH MIME types and external parsers

.TP
.BI UseRemoteContentType\ yes|no
This command specifies if the indexer should get content type from HTTP server headers (yes)
, or from its
.B AddType 
settings (no). If set to
.I no
, and the indexer could not determine content-type with its 
.B AddType
settings, 

.TP
.BI SyslogFacility\ facility
Useful only if
.B indexer
is compiled with syslog support and if you
do not like the default. Argument is the same as used in syslog.conf
file (for example:
.I local7
,
.I daemon
). For list of possible facilities see syslog.conf(5)
Takes global effect and should be used only
.I once
!
Default: depends on compilation.

.TP
.BI LogdAddr\ host[:port]
Use
.I cachelogd
at given host and port if specified. Required for 
.I cache mode
only. Default values are 
.I localhost
and port
.I 7000
.

.TP
.BI FollowOutside\ yes|no
Allow/disallow indexer to walk outside current server.
Should be used carefully (see 
.B MaxHops
command). 

Default: no
.TP
.BI Period\ seconds
Reindex period in seconds, 604800 = 1 week.
May be used before every
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next 
.B Period
command.
.TP
.BI Tag\ number
Use this parameter for your own purposes. For example for grouping
some servers into one group, etc.
May be used multiple times before every
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B Tag
command.
.TP
.BI MaxHops\ number
Maximum way in "mouse clicks" from start URL given in
.B Server
command. May be used multiple times before every
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B MaxHops
command.

Default: 256
.TP
.BI MaxNetErrors\ number
Maximum network errors for each server.
If there are too many network errors on some server
(server is down, host unreachable etc.)
.B indexer
will try not to do more than
.I number
attempts to connect to this server.
May be used multiple times before
.B Server
command and takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B MaxNetErrors
command.

Default: 16

.TP
.BI TitleWeight\ number
Weight of the words in the <title>...</title>
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B TitleWeight
command.

Default: 2
.TP
.BI BodyWeight\ number
Weight of the words in the <body>...</body> of the html documents 
and in the contents of the text/plain documents.
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B BodyWeight
command.

Default: 1
.TP
.BI DescWeight\ number
Weight of the words in the <META NAME="Description" Content="...">
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and takes effect till the end of config file or till next 
.B DescWeight
command.

Default: 2
.TP
.BI KeywordWeight\ number
Weight of the words in the <META NAME="Keywords" Content="...">
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and takes effect till the end of config file or till next 
.B KeywordWeight
command.

Default: 2
.TP
.BI UrlWeight\ number
Weight of the words in the URL of the documents.
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B UrlWeight
command.

Default: 0
.TP
.BI DeleteBad\ yes|no
Prevent indexer from deleting bad (not found, forbidden etc) URLs
from database. Useful if you want to check 'integrity' of you server(s),
so if you set it to
.I no
, that "bad" URLs will remain in database.
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B DeleteBad
command.

Default: yes
.TP
.BI Robots\ yes|no
Allows/disallows using robots.txt and <META NAME="robots">
exclusions. Useful if you want to check 'integrity' of you server(s).
Can be set multiple times before 
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B Robots
command.

Default: yes.

.TP
.BI Section\ <string>\ <number>
where <string> is a section name and <number> is section ID
between 0 and 255. Use 0 if you don't want to index some of 
these sections. It is better to use different sections IDs
for different documents parts. In this case during search 
time you'll be able to give different weight to each part
or even disallow some sections at a search time.



.TP
.BI Index\ yes|no
Prevent indexer from storing words into database.
Useful if you want to check 'integrity' of you server(s).
Can be set multiple times before "Server" command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next Index command.

.I Note:
Instead of
.B "Index no"
you can use the alternate form
.B "NoIndex"

Default: yes
.TP
.BI Follow\ yes|no
Allow/disallow indexer to store <a href="..."> into database.
Can be set multiple times before
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B Follow
command.

.I Note:
Instead of
.B "Follow no"
you can use the alternate form
.B "NoFollow"

Default: yes
.TP
.BI MaxDocSize\ size

Hope the name is self-explanatory, this command is to limit maximum document size.
.I size
is in bytes.
If there is document with size more than
.I size
,
.B indexer
will parse only first
.I size
bytes of documents.

Default: 1048576 (which is 1 megabyte)

.TP
.B Mime
.I <from_mime>
.I <to_mime>[;charset]
.I ["command line [$1]"]

This is used to add support for parsing documents with mime types other
than
.I text/plain
and
.I text/html.
It can be done via external parser (which should provide output in plain
or html text) or just by substituting mime type so indexer can understand it
directly.

.I <from_mime>
and
.I <to_mime>
are standard mime types.
.I <to_mime>
should be either
.I text/plain
or
.I text/html
, because these are the only types that
.B indexer
understands.
                                                                           
We assume external parser generates results on stdout (if not, you have to
write a little script and cat results to stdout).

Optional charset parameter used to change charset if needed.

Command line parameter is optional. If there's no command line, this is
used to change mime type. Command line could also have $1 parameter which
stands for temporary file name. Some parsers could not operate on stdin,
so
.I indexer
creates temporary file for parser and its name passed instead of $1.

.TP
.BI CharSet\ charset
Useful for 8 bit character sets.
WWW-servers send data in different character sets.
.I charset
is default character set of server in next 
.B Server
command(s).
May be used before every
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B CharSet
command.

By now
.B indexer
supports Cyrillic koi8-r, cp1251, cp866, iso8859-5, x-mac-cyrillic, 
Arabic cp1256, Western iso-8859-1, Central Europe iso-8859-2 and cp1250 
character sets.

This parameter is default character set for "bad" servers that do not send 
information about charset in header: just "Content-type: text/html" 
instead of for example "Content-type: text/html; charset=koi8-r" and
do not send charset information in META tags.

.B CharSet command.
.TP
Examples:

CharSet koi8-r
.br
CharSet windows-1250
.br
CharSet ISO-8859-1

.TP
.BI ForceIISCharset1251\ yes/no
This option is useful for users dealing with Cyrillic content and broken
(or misconfigured?) Microsoft IIS web servers, which tends to report
charset incorrectly. This is a really dirty hack, but if this option is turned on
it is assumed that all servers that are reported as 'Microsoft' or 'IIS' have
content in Windows-1251 codepage.
This command should be used only once in configuration file and takes global
effect.

Default: no

.TP
.BI AuthBasic\ login:passwd
Use basic http authorization. Can be set before every
.B Server
command and takes effect only for next
.B Server
command.
.TP
Examples:

AuthBasic somebody:something

If you have password protected directory(ies), but whole server is open, use:

AuthBasic login1:passwd1
.br
Server http://my.server.com/my/secure/directory1/
.br
AuthBasic login2:passwd2
.br
Server http://my.server.com/my/secure/directory2/
.br
Server http://my.server.com/

.TP
.BI ProxyAuthBasic\ login:passwd
Use http proxy basic authorisation. Can be used before every
.B Server
command and taked effect only for the next one 
.B Server
command! It should be also before
.B Proxy
command.
.TP
Example:
ProxyAuthBasic somebody:smth

.TP
.BI Proxy\ your.proxy.host[:port]
Connect ia  proxy rather directly.
You can index ftp servers (only) when using proxy.
If
.I port
is not specified, it is set to default value of 3128 (Squid).
If proxy host is not specified, direct connection will be performed.
Can be set before every
.B Server
command and
takes effect till the end of config file or till next
.B Proxy
command.
.TP
Examples:
Proxy atoll.anywhere.com
 - proxy on atoll.anywhere.com, port 3128

Proxy lota.anywhere.com:8090
 - proxy on lota.anywhere.com, port 8090

Proxy
 - turn off proxy usage (direct connection)

.TP
.BI Server\ URL
It is the main configuration command.
Use this to add start URL of server to be indexed.
You may use many
.B Server 
commands in the same indexer.conf file
.TP
Examples:

Server http://localhost/
.br
Server http://www.yoursite.com/
.br
Server http://www.yoursite.com/~yourname/
.br
Server ftp://ftp.yourdomain.com/pub/




.SH "EXAMPLE"

.TP
.I This is a minimal sample indexer config file

DBHost		localhost
.br
DBName		udmsearch
.br
DBUser		foo
.br
DBPass		bar
.br
Server		http://localhost/
.br
Disallow /cgi-bin/ \\.cgi /nph 
.br
Disallow \\.b$	\\.sh$	\\.md5$
.br
Disallow \\.arj$  \\.tar$  \\.zip$  \\.tgz$  \\.gz$
.br
Disallow \\.lha$ \\.lzh$ \\.tar\\.Z$  \\.rar$  \\.zoo$
.br
Disallow \\.gif$  \\.jpg$  \\.jpeg$ \\.bmp$  \\.tiff$ 
.br
Disallow \\.vdo$  \\.mpeg$ \\.mpe$  \\.mpg$  \\.avi$  \\.movie$
.br
Disallow \\.mid$  \\.mp3$  \\.rm$   \\.ram$  \\.wav$  \\.aiff$ \\.ra$
.br
Disallow \\.vrml$ \\.wrl$
.br
Disallow \\.exe$  \\.cab$  \\.dll$  \\.bin$  \\.class$
.br
Disallow \\.tex$  \\.texi$ \\.xls$  \\.doc$  \\.texinfo$
.br
Disallow \\.rtf$  \\.pdf$  \\.cdf$  \\.ps$
.br
Disallow \\.ai$   \\.eps$  \\.ppt$  \\.hqx$
.br
Disallow \\.cpt$  \\.bms$  \\.oda$  \\.tcl$
.br
Disallow \\.rpm$
.br
Disallow \\?D=A$ \\?D=A$ \\?D=D$ \\?M=A$ \\?M=D$ \\?N=A$ \\?N=D$ \\?S=A$ \\?S=D$
.br
Disallow /[.]{1,2} /\\%2e /\\%2f
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR indexer (1),
.BR syslog.conf (5)
