.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2011 mnoGoSearch <general@mnogosearch.org>
.\"
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.\" Written by Kir (kir@sever.net) for UdmSearch 2.1
.\" Modified by Dmitry Tkatchenko (dim@lavtech.ru) for mnoGoSearch 3.1
.\" Modified by Maxime Zakharov (maxime@mnogosearch.org) for mnoGoSearch 3.2
.\" 
.de TQ
.br
.ns
.TP \\$1
..
.TH INDEXER 1 "23 December 2002" "mnoGoSearch 3.2" "mnoGoSearch 3.2 reference manual"
.SH NAME
indexer \- indexing WWW space.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B indexer
[
.B -a
] [
.B -b
] [
.B -n
.I number
] [
.B -e
] [
.B -m
] [
.B -q
] [
.B -o
] [
.B -r
] [
.B -i
] [
.B -w
] [
.B -R
] [
.B -N
.I number
] [
.B -p
.I seconds
] [
.B -t
.I tag
] [
.B -u
.I pattern
] [
.B -s 
.I status
] [
.B -y
.I content-type
] [
.B configfile
]

.B "indexer -C"
[
.B -R
] [
.B -t 
.I tag
] [
.B -u 
.I pattern
] [
.B -s 
.I status
] [
.B -y
.I content-type
] [
.B configfile
]

.B "indexer -S"
[
.B -R
] [
.B -t
.I tag
] [
.B -u 
.I pattern
] [
.B -s 
.I status
] [
.B -y
.I content-type
] [
.B configfile
]

.B "indexer -I"
[
.B -R
] [
.B -t 
.I tag
] [
.B -u 
.I pattern
] [
.B -s 
.I status
] [
.B -y
.I content-type
] [
.B configfile
]

.B "indexer -h|-?"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B indexer
is a part of
.B mnoGoSearch
-  search engine. The purpose of
.B indexer
is to walk through HTTP, HTTPS, FTP, NEWS servers as well as local file system, 
recursively grabbing all the documents and storing metadata about documents 
into SQL or built-in database in a smart and effective manner. Since every 
document is referenced by its corresponding URL, metadata collected by
.B indexer
is used later in a search process.

The behaviour of
.B indexer
is controlled mainly via configuration file
.B indexer.conf (5)
, which it reads on startup. There is a compiled-in default for configuration
file name and location, so you don't need to specify it every time you run
.B indexer
, but you can specify alternative configuration file as the last argument.

.B indexer
supports HTML-formatted (text/html MIME type), XML-formated (text/xml MIME type) and plain text
(text/plain MIME type) documents. Support for other data types is provided
by using external programs, which are called "parsers". Parser should get
data of some type from stdin and put text/html or text/plain data to stdout.
See
.B indexer.conf(5)
for details.

You may run
.B indexer
regularly from
.B cron (8)
to keep metadata up-to-date.

.B indexer
is also used to manipulate database. It may be used to clear some data
from database, to output some statistics and to calculate popolarity ranking.




.SH OPTIONS
.B Indexing

.TP
.B \-a
Reindex all documents even if not expired.

By default indexer reindex only whose documents that are "expired", e.g.
time since their last reindexing is greater than "Period" from
.B indexer.conf (5)
file. This option disables the feature, so all documents will be reindexed,
irrelevant to their state.
To achieve this,
.B indexer
just first marks all URLs as "expired". This gives the
following side effect: if you start
.B indexer
.B \-a
and then terminate it (for example, by pressing
.I Ctrl\-C
) and start again, all URLs will be considered "expired" and will be
reindexed again.

.TP
.B \-m
This option force
.B indexer
to reindex documents, even if their content has not been modified. 
It is achived by disabling If-Modified-Since HTTP header and MD5 hash check.
This is usable if you have changed some
.I Allow
,
.I Disallow
,
.I MaxHops
or other directives in your
.B indexer.conf(5)
file. Thus, there will be different set of rules for storing document URLs and
so different set of URLs. To find out that URLs, there is a need to reindex
even-not-changed documents.

.TP
.B \-n\ 
.I number
Reindex only given
.I number
of URLs and exit.

.TP
.B \-c\ 
.I seconds
limit indexing time to a given number of
.I seconds
.

.TP
.B \-e
Reindex most expired documents first.
That option forces the list of documents to reindex to be sorted by last
reindexing time. That means that most "expired" documents will be reindexed 
first. You may or may not experience some minor delay with that option,
but at least in theory it should slow down indexer a bit.

The combination of
.B \-e
and
.BI \-n\ 
.I number
is seems to be of some value. So, you can use
.B indexer
.B \-e
.B \-n\ 
.B 100
to reindex just 100 most expired documents.

.TP
.B \-q
Quick startup. This mode is useful if you haven't added or modified
.I Server
commands.
.B indexer
will not insert URLs given in Server commands into database which leads
to some startup speed-up.

.TP
.B \-k 
skip locking (this option affects only MySQL and PostgreSQL only).

.TP
.B \-i
Isert new URLs. New URL must be specified using
.BI -u
or
.BI -f
options.

.TP
.B \-p
.I seconds
Specifies time in seconds to pause after each URL.

.TP
.B \-w
Turns off warnings before clearing database.

.TP
.B \-o
Index documents with less depth (hops value) first.

.TP
.B \-r
Do not try to reduce remote servers load by randomising url fetch list before indexing (recommended for very big number of URLs).
.TP
.B \-b
Block start more than one indexer instances

.TP
.B \-N
.I number
Run 
.I number
threads, if multithreaded mnoGoSearch version was compiled.

.TP
.B \-R
Calculate popularity rank before program exit.


.B Subsection control

.TP
.BI \-t\ tag
.TQ 
.BI \-u\ pattern
.TQ 
.BI \-s\ status
.TQ
.BI \-g\ category
.TQ
.BI \-y\ content-type

Set URL filters on 
.I tag
, 
.I pattern
,
.I status
,
.I category
and
.I content-type
respectively.

.I tag
is a server tag that you can arbitrary set in config file
.B indexer.conf (5)

.I pattern
is a SQL LIKE wildcard for URL. In short, underscore (
.B _
) means "any symbol", and per cent (
.B %
) means "any symbols", and the comparison is case insensitive. For example,
.B indexer
.B \-u\ 
.I "%izhcom.ru%"
will reindex all documents that URLs contains string "izhcom.ru".

.I status
is a filter on document's HTTP status obtained during last reindexing.
For example,
.B \-s\ 
.I 0
is a filter for all documents that has not been indexed before.
.B \-s\ 
.I 200
is a filter for all documents that was retrieved with "HTTP 200 Ok" status,
and
.B \-s 
.I 301
is a filter for all documents that was retrieved with "HTTP 301 Redirect"
status.
See HTTP protocol specifications
for details on HTTP status codes and their respective meanings.

.I category
is a filter for documents that match specific category. 
Categories are almost like 
.I tags
but nested.

.I content-type
is a MIME type for documents with that Content-Type.


You can freely combine any number of
.B \-t
,
.B \-u
,
.B \-s
,
.B \-g
and
.B \-y
options. The filters of the same class (tag, pattern, status) are be combined
using logical OR, and the filters of different classes will be combined using
logical AND. That means, if you type
.I indexer -u %izhcom.ru% -u %udm.net% -t 1 -s 200
the documents-to-index will be those with tag 1 and HTTP status 200, 
which URLs contains the strings "izhcom.ru" or "udm.net".

.TP
.B \-f
.I filename
Read URL to be indexed/inserted/cleared from a file. (With -a or -C option,
it supports SQL LIKE wildcard 
.I '%'
, has no effect when combined with
.B \-m
option.

.TP
.B \-f
.I -
Use STDIN instead of a file to read URL list



.B Logging options

.TP
.B \-l
Do not log to stdout/stderr.

.TP
.B \-v
.I level
Verbose level, can be set to 0-5.


.B Misc.
.TP
.B \-C
Clear databases.

This will erase data previously collected by indexer from the mnoGoSearch
databases. You can use options
.B \-t
,
.B \-u
and
.B \-s
described above to select what do you want to delete.

.B WARNING:
Use this option with extreme caution!

.TP
.B \-S
Show statistics.

This option outputs a brief statistics of how many documents are there in
database, their HTTP status, and how many documents are expired. You can use
options
.B \-t
,
.B \-u
and
.B \-s
described above to select what documents do you want statistics on.

.TP
.B \-I
Show referrers.

This option shows you the referrers of URLs. Or, in other words, all hyperlinks
from the document. You can use
options
.B \-t
,
.B \-u
and
.B \-s
described above to select what documents do you want to show referrers on.

.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-?
Shows help screen with brief overall description of indexer options.

.SH BUGS
If you think you've found a bug in indexer, please report it to
mnoGoSearch bugreport system at 
.I http://www.mnogosearch.org/bugs/ 
(please post in English only).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co  1998-2011  Lavtech.Com Corp.
.I (http://www.mnogosearch.org/).

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR indexer.conf (5)
